Psychotherapy Section Copy:

My Thoughts on Therapy
Psychotherapy, while certainly not the only tool for transformation, can be a powerful vehicle in helping you to realize change, insight, self-compassion, increased awareness and a sense of greater freedom and flexibility. 

Good psychotherapy is deep. It is reparative, restorative and active. It can also be challenging, as crossing over difficult psychological and emotional terrain requires willingness to glimpse our own shadow material and painful content from the past. It short, it requires courage. However, good therapy does not push individuals into places they are unwilling to go or that feel unsafe. It honors natural protective boundaries. Respecting courage and boundaries, good therapy opens us to depths and horizons we may not have imagined, yet somehow, deep down, sensed as possible.

Approaching Integral Approaches

In my studies and in my work, I've sensed confusing divisions in approaches to therapy. Generally speaking, I've noticed three main categories of therapy modalties: 1) Those approaches that focus observable behaviors like CBT, applied behavior analysis and contigency management, 2) Those that are insight based and focus on intrasubjective content like Psychoanalysis, Internal Family Systems and Jungian work, and 3) Those more recent approaches focused on the body and energetics like Somatic Experiencing (SE), Sensorimotor Psychotherapy, and Hakomi to name a few. I believe that each of these general divisions address core elements of the human experience. The outer (behavior), the inner (insight) and the body (somatic). While I draw heavily on mindfulness-based behavioral approaches (ACT primarily), I incorporate elements from each category in an effort to provide an integral approach to the WHOLE person.

A little about EMDR

I regularly utilize Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) in my work with clients, particularly those with trauma histories, though EMDR can be a powerful tool for other issues like addiction, chronic pain and, more generally, anxiety and mood regulation issues. EMDR helps clients dive deep more quickly than standard talk therapy. In my own experience, I've found EMDR to be a profound tool in unlocking patterns that, though they had their place historically, have become stuck and are no longer useful. I have trained in Attachment-Focused EMDR with Laurel Parnell, PhD, and utilize this more flexible and developmentally-based approach when indicated.
Context Matters

I work to understand how the people whom I serve have been impacted by social, cultural, economic, and historical systems, institutions and events. As a cisgender heterosexual white male from the South I strive to understand and address how my multiple points of privilege, and my own history influence my perspective and my work. While one's perspective can never be completely neutral, I commit to listening to you from a place of openness, curiosity and humility, honoring your unique identity and acknowledging the various forces that have influenced your experience, struggles and strengths.

In Sum:

I find therapy to be endlessly compelling, and feel profoundly privileged to be present for my clients' healing journeys. I hold this work to be sacred.